README.md, before:

# SBGNViz.js: Cytoscape.js based visualization tool for process description diagrams in SBGN-ML

SBGNViz.js is a web application based on [cytoscape.js](http://cytoscape.github.io/cytoscape.js/) to visualize the pathway models represented by [SBGN Process Description Notation](http://www.sbgn.org/Image:Refcard-PD.png). SBGNViz.js accepts the pathway models represented in [SBGN-ML](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/libsbgn/index.php?title=Exchange_Format) format.

SBGNViz.js is built by extending an open-source javascript graph theory library for analysis and visualisation, [cytoscape.js](http://cytoscape.github.io/cytoscape.js/), to support the [SBGN Process Description Notation](http://www.sbgn.org/Image:Refcard-PD.png). 
<br/>

## Software

<font color="#B3A31D"><b>A sample application using SBGNViz.js can be found [here](http://www.cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/SBGNViz.js/).</b></font>

SBGNViz.js is distributed under [GNU Lesser General Public License](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html). Instructions for obtaining a working copy of the project can be found [here](https://github.com/PathwayCommons/sbgnviz-js/wiki/Obtaining-A-Working-Copy). SBGNViz.js works on every platform that have javascript support including mobile devices.
<br/>

## Highlights

Below are some sample screenshots from SBGNViz.js, illustrating some of its capabilities. Please click on a figure to see it in full size. A User's Guide can be found [here](http://www.cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/SBGNViz.js-1.0.UG.pdf), documenting all features of the tool.

<table  border="1" width="800px" align="left">
	<tr>
		<td>
			<a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/mapk-cascade.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/mapk-cascade-s.png"/>
			</a>
                        <p align="center"> <b> Mapk cascade pathway visualized in SBGNViz.js </b> </p>
		</td>

		<td>     	
			<a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/highlight-processes.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/highlight-processes-s.png"/>
			</a>
                        <p align="center"> <b> Highlighting processes of selected node group </b> </p>
		</td>
	</tr>

	<tr>
		<td>
			<a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/hide-selected.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/hide-selected-s.png"/>
			</a>
                        <p align="center"> <b> Hiding selected node group </b> </p>
		</td>

		<td>     	
			<a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/after-hide-selected.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/after-hide-selected-s.png"/>
			</a>
                        <p align="center"> <b> Same graph after applying hiding on selected node group </b> </p>
		</td>
	</tr>

	<tr>
		<td>
			<a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/show-selected.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/show-selected-s.png"/>
			</a>
                        <p align="center"> <b> Showing only selected node group </b> </p>
		</td>

		<td>     	
			<a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/after-show-selected.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/after-show-selected-s.png"/>
			</a>
                        <p align="center"> <b> Same graph after showing only selected node group </b> </p>
		</td>
	</tr>

	<tr>
		<td>			
                       <a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/highlight-neighbors.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/highlight-neighbors-s.png"/>
			</a>
			<p align="center"><b> Highlighting neighbors of selected node group </b></p>		
		</td>

		<td>			
			<a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/before-load.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/before-load-s.png"/>
			</a>
			<p align="center"><b> Load SBGN-PD diagram from an sbgn-ml file </b></p>	
		</td>

	</tr>

	<tr>
		<td>			
                      <a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/load.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/load-s.png"/>
		      </a>
                      <p align="center"> <b> Loading an sbgnml file from file explorer </b>  </p>
		</td>

		<td>
			<a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/after-load.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/after-load-s.png"/>
			</a>
                        <p align="center"> <b> SBGN diagram visualization of Glycolysis after loading its sbgnml file </b>  </p>
		</td>
	</tr>

	<tr>
		<td>			
                       <a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/save.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/save-s.png"/>
			</a>
                        <p align="center"> <b> Saving current SBGN process description diagram as an sbgnml file </b>  </p>
		</td>

		<td>
			<a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/save-png.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/save-png-s.png"/>
			</a>
                        <p align="center"> <b> Saving current SBGN process description diagram as a png file  </b>  </p>
		</td>
	</tr>

</table>

<br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/>

## Credits

Please cite the following when you use SBGNViz.js:

M. Sari, I. Bahceci, U. Dogrusoz, S.O. Sumer, B.A. Aksoy, O. Babur, E. Demir, "[SBGNViz: a tool for visualization and complexity management of SBGN process description maps](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0128985)", PLoS ONE, 10(6), e0128985, 2015.

## Team

  * Istemi Bahceci, Metin Can Siper, Utku Demir, Ugur Dogrusoz [i-Vis at Bilkent University](http://www.cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis)
  * Selcuk Onur Sumer, Ozgun Babur, Emek Demir, [cBio at MSKCC](http://cbio.mskcc.org)

#### Alumni
  * Mecit Sari, Ayhun Tekat, M.Furkan Sahin, Bulent Arman Aksoy

Commit message:

Credits for JetBrains
For their free open source license support

README.md, after:

# SBGNViz.js: Cytoscape.js based visualization tool for process description diagrams in SBGN-ML

SBGNViz.js is a web application based on [cytoscape.js](http://cytoscape.github.io/cytoscape.js/) to visualize the pathway models represented by [SBGN Process Description Notation](http://www.sbgn.org/Image:Refcard-PD.png). SBGNViz.js accepts the pathway models represented in [SBGN-ML](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/libsbgn/index.php?title=Exchange_Format) format.

SBGNViz.js is built by extending an open-source javascript graph theory library for analysis and visualisation, [cytoscape.js](http://cytoscape.github.io/cytoscape.js/), to support the [SBGN Process Description Notation](http://www.sbgn.org/Image:Refcard-PD.png). 
<br/>

## Software

<font color="#B3A31D"><b>A sample application using SBGNViz.js can be found [here](http://www.cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/SBGNViz.js/).</b></font>

SBGNViz.js is distributed under [GNU Lesser General Public License](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html). Instructions for obtaining a working copy of the project can be found [here](https://github.com/PathwayCommons/sbgnviz-js/wiki/Obtaining-A-Working-Copy). SBGNViz.js works on every platform that have javascript support including mobile devices.
<br/>

## Highlights

Below are some sample screenshots from SBGNViz.js, illustrating some of its capabilities. Please click on a figure to see it in full size. A User's Guide can be found [here](http://www.cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/SBGNViz.js-1.0.UG.pdf), documenting all features of the tool.

<table  border="1" width="800px" align="left">
	<tr>
		<td>
			<a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/mapk-cascade.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/mapk-cascade-s.png"/>
			</a>
                        <p align="center"> <b> Mapk cascade pathway visualized in SBGNViz.js </b> </p>
		</td>

		<td>     	
			<a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/highlight-processes.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/highlight-processes-s.png"/>
			</a>
                        <p align="center"> <b> Highlighting processes of selected node group </b> </p>
		</td>
	</tr>

	<tr>
		<td>
			<a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/hide-selected.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/hide-selected-s.png"/>
			</a>
                        <p align="center"> <b> Hiding selected node group </b> </p>
		</td>

		<td>     	
			<a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/after-hide-selected.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/after-hide-selected-s.png"/>
			</a>
                        <p align="center"> <b> Same graph after applying hiding on selected node group </b> </p>
		</td>
	</tr>

	<tr>
		<td>
			<a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/show-selected.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/show-selected-s.png"/>
			</a>
                        <p align="center"> <b> Showing only selected node group </b> </p>
		</td>

		<td>     	
			<a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/after-show-selected.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/after-show-selected-s.png"/>
			</a>
                        <p align="center"> <b> Same graph after showing only selected node group </b> </p>
		</td>
	</tr>

	<tr>
		<td>			
                       <a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/highlight-neighbors.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/highlight-neighbors-s.png"/>
			</a>
			<p align="center"><b> Highlighting neighbors of selected node group </b></p>		
		</td>

		<td>			
			<a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/before-load.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/before-load-s.png"/>
			</a>
			<p align="center"><b> Load SBGN-PD diagram from an sbgn-ml file </b></p>	
		</td>

	</tr>

	<tr>
		<td>			
                      <a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/load.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/load-s.png"/>
		      </a>
                      <p align="center"> <b> Loading an sbgnml file from file explorer </b>  </p>
		</td>

		<td>
			<a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/after-load.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/after-load-s.png"/>
			</a>
                        <p align="center"> <b> SBGN diagram visualization of Glycolysis after loading its sbgnml file </b>  </p>
		</td>
	</tr>

	<tr>
		<td>			
                       <a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/save.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/save-s.png"/>
			</a>
                        <p align="center"> <b> Saving current SBGN process description diagram as an sbgnml file </b>  </p>
		</td>

		<td>
			<a href="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/save-png.png">
				<img src="http://cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis/sbgnviz-js/samples/save-png-s.png"/>
			</a>
                        <p align="center"> <b> Saving current SBGN process description diagram as a png file  </b>  </p>
		</td>
	</tr>

</table>

<br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/>

## Credits

Please cite the following when you use SBGNViz.js:

M. Sari, I. Bahceci, U. Dogrusoz, S.O. Sumer, B.A. Aksoy, O. Babur, E. Demir, "[SBGNViz: a tool for visualization and complexity management of SBGN process description maps](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0128985)", PLoS ONE, 10(6), e0128985, 2015.

Thanks to JetBrains for an [Open Source License](https://www.jetbrains.com/buy/opensource/)

## Team

  * Istemi Bahceci, Metin Can Siper, Utku Demir, Ugur Dogrusoz [i-Vis at Bilkent University](http://www.cs.bilkent.edu.tr/~ivis)
  * Selcuk Onur Sumer, Ozgun Babur, Emek Demir, [cBio at MSKCC](http://cbio.mskcc.org)

#### Alumni
  * Mecit Sari, Ayhun Tekat, M.Furkan Sahin, Bulent Arman Aksoy
